               Time Series Analysis Demo

The data in this demonstration shows the power,
measured in megawatts, produced at a large power
generation station. The data was collected from many
circuits, every half-hour for a period exceeding one
year.

Initially, the data is sub-sampled to fit into the
window and displayed as a 2-D color image where days
are on the X axis and time of day is the Y axis. The
color shades represent the data values in megawatts
with a legend at the bottom of the x window indicating
the relationship between the color shades and the data
values.

Drag the cursor over the 2-D color image to get
specific data readings which are displayed in the lower
left hand corner of the window.  The Time and Date
Profiles are updated as the cursor moves through the
image.

You can also view the data as a 3-D surface. You can
view the data for the entire year, or for any month
within the year.

MENU OPTIONS
------------

File Menu:

    Select "Quit" to exit the demo.

Options Menu:

    Note: this menu is only available when the surface
    display is in use. The menu will be greyed out when
    the image display is in use.

    Select "Fixed Z Axis" to fix the Z axis such that it
    covers the range of the entire data set.

    Select "Variable Z Axis" to scale the Z axis such that
    it covers only the current month.

View Menu:

    Select "Image" to display the 2-D version of the data,
    as described above.

    Select "Surface" to display the 3-D surface version of
    the data.

About Menu:

    Select "About Time Series" to display this help text.


FEATURES OF THE TIME SERIES ANALYSIS DEMO
-----------------------------------------

<<Surface/Image Button>>
    Click this button to toggle between displaying
    the 2-D (image) and 3-D (surface) versions of 
    the data.

<<Month Slider>>
    Adjust the month selection slider bar to select a
    specific month to view. Slide the slider all the
    way to the left to view the entire year's data set.

<<Z Rotation Slider>>
    Adjust this slider to change the z axis rotation of
    the surface plot. This slider does not appear when
    the 2-D image display is in use.

<<X Rotation Slider>>
    Adjust this slider to change the x axis rotation of
    the surface plot. This slider does not appear when
    the 2-D image display is in use.
