


          WELCOME TO THE WAVELET TOOL DEMO


 The Wavelet tool is a widget application program
 that graphically demonstrates the image compression
 capabilities of Wavelet Transforms.

 THE WAVELET TOOL DISPLAY
 ------------------------

 The Wavelet tool display screen includes the
 following elements:

 - A group of menus at the top of the display
   controlling the program options.

 - A 256x256 byte display of the uncompressed image.

 - A 256x256 byte display of the compressed image.

 - A visual display of the wavelet basis of both
   the original image and the compressed image.

 - A graph showing the ratio between actual values
   in the wavelet basis (Y) and the percentage of
   compression (X) that would result if the Y
   value was used as the threshold for compression.

 - An optional 256x256 byte display window that
   displays the difference between the compressed
   and uncompressed images. The difference image
   has been byte scaled.


MENU OPTIONS
------------

File Menu:

    Select "Open" to select a new image. A list
    of files will appear. Click on one of the
    listed items to select a new image.

    Select "Quit" to exit the Wavelet demo.

Options Menu:

    Select "4 coefficients" to compute the wavelet
    basis using 4 Daubechies coefficients.

    Select "12 coefficients" to comput the wavelet
    basis using 12 Daubechies coefficients.

    Select "20 coefficients" to comput the wavelet
    basis using 20 Daubechies coefficients.

    Select "Show difference image" to create a
    pop-up window that shows the difference
    between the original an compressed images.

Tools Menu:

    Select "XLoadCT" to activate the XLOADCT
    routine, which allows you to select a new
    color table for the displayed images.

    Select "XPalette" to activate the XPALETTE
    routine, which allows you to create your
    own color table.

    Select "XMNtool" to activate the XMANTOOL
    routine, which allows you to control the
    currently-running widget applications.

About Menu:

    Select "About wavelets" to display this file.


FEATURES OF THE WAVELET DEMO
----------------------------

<<PERCENTAGE SLIDER>>
    Adjust the slider to change the amount of
    compression used. Higher percentage compression
    values mean smaller data sets.

    You can also adjust the compression percentage
    by positioning the mouse pointer in the 
    "Adjust compression" plot, holding down the
    left mouse button, and dragging the vertical
    line that appears in the plot.

